Take Heavy (Whipping) Cream (36%+ fat). Heat it on the stove to anywhere between 185 and 195 degrees (you'll need a thermometer). Once it's at temp, squeeze about 1 Tbsp of fresh lemon juice in (whatever strategy you have to keeping seeds out is fine--squeezing through a strainer or juicing it in a glass, etc). Hold it at temp for another 5 min or so. Keep in mind that you'll need to keep the cream moving gently through the heating and simmering. Remove from the heat and let it come down to room temp (a little warmer is fine if you're impatient--it just shouldn't be hot). Using a colander or fine mesh strainer lined with either some very fine cheese cloth (grade 80 or 90--high thread count) or a tea towel. I've used a lower grade cheese cloth and while it works, getting the cheese out of it is a pain in the ass. I actually went on amazon and bought some butter muslin (which is designed for this purpose, but I haven't received it yet). However, a cotton tea towel works too. Here's the bit that I couldn't suss out online... most recipes tell you let it strain overnight into a bowl. They're correct. However, one night (~12 hours) gave me a very thick whipped cream. What I was looking for was more along the lines of a cream cheese. So this weekend, I let it strain for two nights (~36 hours). That's the trick. At least it was in my case, maybe the butter muslin will help. In either case it was delicious, waiting only changed the texture and I'll be making more of both in the future.

Whenever I work with dairy I'm worried I'll screw it up. This last time I basically threw caution to the wind. The thermometer I used was broke and so it got hotter than it should have and when I added the lemon I literally just squeezed a lemon half through the mesh strainer until I figured it was about 1-2 Tbsp (completely guessed cooking show style). It turns out that all the precision in the recipes that I had read was only dummy proofing because this batch turned out great without being retentive at all.

I don't know how well it replaces cream cheese in baking, but it's a perfect substitute as a spread and simple topping. I've mixed it with Jam/Jelly, eaten it on fruit and toast, and I plan on experimenting more.

This reads like it's a lot of fuss, it's not, I'm only being detailed because I've had to fill in the gaps with the recipes I've found online.

Most of the stuff you read online stipulates to use pasteurized over ultra-pasteurized. The only brand I can find (at Cub or Target) that isn't ultra-pasteurized is Kemps. I'm not convinced it matters as I've made the cheese with both, but I try to steer towards less processed when I can (not that Kemps is the model if unprocessed virtue). What is particularly of interest to me is how in both cases, you know the 1 or 2 ingredients in what you're eating. The one issue with Kemps is the carrageenan, see here: https://www.toxinless.com/heavy-cream ... I don't really know if the alarm is founded, but typically speaking the fewer ingredients the better.
